Joshua Rudolf: Boom.
Joshua Rudolf: That's… Half note-takers, half humans.
Joshua Rudolf: Cool, we'll get started in a minute.
Joshua Rudolf: Hello, Dono.
Joshua Rudolf: Thanks for joining on short notice.
Joshua Rudolf: Donna has also kindly prepared a presentation, I believe.
Joshua Rudolf: Very much appreciated.
Joshua Rudolf: We'll just give folks one more minute to join.
karl: How goesy, y'all?
karl: How you doing?
Joshua Rudolf: Doing good.
karl: Thanks, Josh, for putting this together!
Joshua Rudolf: Of course.
Joshua Rudolf: The least I can do.
Joshua Rudolf: I hear me.
Joshua Rudolf: Cool. Well, I think we can get started, maybe, while we wait for people to continue to trickle in.
Joshua Rudolf: We'll, kick things off.
Joshua Rudolf: So, Dono, you have a presentation. Before we jump into the presentation, we have Carl here as well, and Harry and other folks from the L2 team, so I just wanted to give maybe anyone a quick chance, if you wanted to… I don't know how long you all can stay on the call. Do you have any thoughts that you want to quickly share before we jump into the presentation, or should we start there and then find time for you guys to jump in?
Harry Kalodner | Offchain Labs: I'm here the whole time, so…
karl: I think we can get started. Extremely bullish, but slower the withdrawal times.
Joshua Rudolf: Okay, sounds good. Whenever you're ready, Donna, let me, just give you permission to share, sorry.
Joshua Rudolf: Okay, good to go.
donnoh | L2BEAT: Okay.
donnoh | L2BEAT: Okay, should be visible.
donnoh | L2BEAT: Okay, so… yeah, I got asked to say a few words here,
donnoh | L2BEAT: I… like, this is not a new conversation. This is something that, has been ongoing for more than a year, probably.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And this conversation started,
donnoh | L2BEAT: Mainly when the first single round for proof systems came out, there was a big discussion, I remember.
donnoh | L2BEAT: From these teams that were saying, we can reduce the challenge period, because, if you do one step instead of 60,
donnoh | L2BEAT: you need less time to play the challenge, right? And… and, you know, and this was, because of a misconception that the 7 days are needed because of the… of the many steps is not true.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And,
donnoh | L2BEAT: you know, and that's kind of where it started. Now, you know, over time, we kind of understand more what's the trade-off.
donnoh | L2BEAT: But yeah, so let me, let me get substant,
donnoh | L2BEAT: So, again, the reason we have,
donnoh | L2BEAT: The 7 days is because we want to protect the roll-ups from strong censorship attacks. And strong censorship attacks means you have
donnoh | L2BEAT: A majority of validators that are malicious, and they will not attest.
donnoh | L2BEAT: to blocks that contain, for proof transactions, right?
donnoh | L2BEAT: And if the majority validators is malicious.
donnoh | L2BEAT: they can censor, indefinitely. And we say, actually, this is not indefinite, because
donnoh | L2BEAT: the Ethereum protocol will coordinate a fork, to get rid of these censoring validators, so after the fork, censorship resistance will be restored. But we need a fork, right? And…
donnoh | L2BEAT: And, you know, it was not, at the time, like, super clear, what was, like, the exact timeline. I wrote this article
donnoh | L2BEAT: That was trying to… to come up with, with a tentative timeline.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And this timeline kind of estimates that we can fork in 5 days.
donnoh | L2BEAT: We can coordinate, implement, and activate a fork, either a software or a hard fork, in 5 days.
donnoh | L2BEAT: Which, if you think about it, it's already very tight.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And, so… Again, there is this assumption that if you have a challenge period of 7 days,
donnoh | L2BEAT: Ethereum protocol will, make sure that censorship resistance will be restored.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And… Most of the approved systems that have been designed, like, that have been studied,
donnoh | L2BEAT: are based around these assumptions, right? So this is bold, from Officer Labs. If you read, you know, through the paper, they say.
donnoh | L2BEAT: We have this CMAX value, that is the bound of the censorship budget that the attacker has. We assume that the attacker can censor, can delay transactions.
donnoh | L2BEAT: But not more than, this CMAX value. And we say that this CMAX value is around of… or the order of a week.
donnoh | L2BEAT: Here, the paper says that this is a conservative estimate. I kind of disagree with that. I don't think 7 days is conservative, I think it's pretty tight. But in any case, like, the safety of the system, or, like, the security of the system, is based around the fact that censorship will not be indefinite, and eventually it will be resolved.
donnoh | L2BEAT: This is so… this is from Bold, this is from Dave, which is another, proof system from Cartesi. They also have a censorship budget, they call it, TEC, and again, it assumes that this is, one week.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And again, if this doesn't hold, the system is broken, so we kind of assume that.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And something to keep in mind is that, you know.
donnoh | L2BEAT: on Ethereum, if there is… if you have funds on Ethereum, and there is a majority of validators that is malicious, these validators, the attacker, cannot steal funds from you. It can double spend, it can censor, but like, if you have ETH in your account and doing nothing.
donnoh | L2BEAT: The attacker will not be able to steal these funds from you.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And for this reason, we should expect the same from the roll-ups, right? So if you say roll-ups get the same security as Ethereum, ideally, at stage 2 or whatever, we should expect the same property from the roll-ups as well, right? But, you know.
donnoh | L2BEAT: What we want to argue here is kind of, okay, stage 1 is supposed to be something in the middle, between stage 0 and Stage 2, so maybe we can relax a little bit.
donnoh | L2BEAT: The security assumption, also because we have a Security Council, we already have, you know, this strong assumption that the Security Council will not rug the chain, so maybe, you know, this is not that bad for the first one, right?
donnoh | L2BEAT: So, let's say that we agree that it is okay to have this assumption, that 51% attacks will not happen.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And, also, let's assume that the TVS… the combined TVS of all the optimistic roll-ups will remain well below the theoretical security, because otherwise.
donnoh | L2BEAT: it becomes profitable to become… to do this attack, and this is, like, systematic risk that Ethereum has as well. This is kind of scenario similar to, Lido that needs to self-limit, right? I hope, optimistic roll-ups will not need to, to do this.
donnoh | L2BEAT: But also, you know, it kind of gets to the same conversations.
donnoh | L2BEAT: So, okay, let's assume all of this, that we are okay with this risk, and…
donnoh | L2BEAT: If we do this, we now have to study what is a safe lower bound for a challenge period to protect ourselves from soft censorship attacks. So, builder-driven, not attestation-driven, right? And…
donnoh | L2BEAT: First, we need to kind of understand,
donnoh | L2BEAT: how the, like, builder, like, building block market works, and I kind of tried to look into the, you know, top consensus clients, and I was not super familiar with this, but, like.
donnoh | L2BEAT: Just for everyone to know, the way that validators choose a block when they're connected to Builder is
donnoh | L2BEAT: They build the block locally, based on the transactions that are in the bump pool, they get the bid from the builder, and if the money that they get from the local block is more than what they get from the builder, they will build.
donnoh | L2BEAT: are using the local block, right? And the local block has the, you know, censorship-resistant property, because, you know, you get a structure in the bundle, you order by tip, whatever.
donnoh | L2BEAT: So the builder needs to pay you to convince you not to use your local block, right? So, it's not that if you're connected to a builder, it's not that you just accept whatever block.
donnoh | L2BEAT: Without thinking, you compare, the block that the builder gives you to the…
donnoh | L2BEAT: Like, you compare the builder bid with the, tips that you get from the local block.
donnoh | L2BEAT: So this is good, because now there is a cost to the attacker.
donnoh | L2BEAT: to censor transactions, right? To prevent you from including a transaction that is paying enough, for example.
donnoh | L2BEAT: Otherwise, if this is, this was not true,
donnoh | L2BEAT: the attack would almost be free, right? But it is not. And all these nodes, all these softwares have some patterns with good default values to do this.
donnoh | L2BEAT: If it's 100%, it means that if the local block has more value, you would use that. If it's 90, for example, and a lot of projects use 90, it means that the builder block needs to be more than 10%, or more profitable than the local block.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And luckily, we have Offshore Labs, that writes good paper.
donnoh | L2BEAT: So, earlier this year, Opture Labs was published.
donnoh | L2BEAT: an analysis around the crypto economic security of challenge protocols exactly under this scenario, when there is an attacker that can do soft censorship attacks, right? So, if you go through the abstract, they say.
donnoh | L2BEAT: Major, major optimistic roll-ups today set this period at roughly one week, talking about the challenge period.
donnoh | L2BEAT: mainly to guard against strong censorship that undermines Ethereum's own crypto economic security. However, other forms of censorship are possible, and the replication on an optimistic role of security is not well understood, and this is what this paper tries to do.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And, it's very good. And…
donnoh | L2BEAT: This paper, I will go briefly to what the paper says, but it tries to model
donnoh | L2BEAT: different type of scenarios. One of the scenarios, which is the simplest one, which is the one that I will go through, is
donnoh | L2BEAT: There is a challenger that wants to, send a transaction, to… to challenge a malicious state route. This challenge… this transaction will pay a tip.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And now the talker needs to pay more.
donnoh | L2BEAT: So that the validator accepts a block, the sensors, right? So…
donnoh | L2BEAT: The game is the validator will accept
donnoh | L2BEAT: The transaction from whoever bids the most.
donnoh | L2BEAT: Right? So, if you have, let's say.
donnoh | L2BEAT: a transaction from the Challenger in the mempool with one ETH dip.
donnoh | L2BEAT: The attacker needs to bid at least one ETH.
donnoh | L2BEAT: At every block to prevent these transactions from getting in.
donnoh | L2BEAT: So…
donnoh | L2BEAT: And also, they also modeled different type of games, where a setup and percentage of actors is just
donnoh | L2BEAT: Building blocks locally.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And then they also model the scenario where for sale is implemented. But I will not go through them. Let's go through the simple scenario where all the validators are delegating to builders, and they will accept either the local block or the builder block based on who pays the most.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And since the fraud-proof game is interactive, the challenger needs more than one transaction.
donnoh | L2BEAT: to settle a challenge for proof, right? So if the defender, which is the challenger, let's say, has a certain budget, it will need to divide this budget
donnoh | L2BEAT: Based on the number of transactions that it needs to submit.
donnoh | L2BEAT: So, we have T here, which is the total number of rounds that you can also see as the total number of blocks that there is during a period. So, if we have one day as a challenge period, T is the total number of blocks in one day.
donnoh | L2BEAT: N is the number of… let's say…
donnoh | L2BEAT: Steps that the protocol needs to make for one challenge to resolve.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And then there is Alice Budget, which Alice is the attacker, because it starts with an A, and Daria is the defender, because it starts with a D.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And, you know, in the end, they come up with a formula that says, okay, if the attacker has this budget, the defender needs to have this other budget. And so the defender budget is calculated as a function of the attacker's budget. And the attacker's budget
donnoh | L2BEAT: Can be fixed.
donnoh | L2BEAT: to, for example, the protocol TBS, right? Because if, let's say, Arbitrum has $10 billion in the bridge, the attacker can spend up to $10 billion.
donnoh | L2BEAT: to steal money from the bridge. So now you need to calculate, okay, to protect $10 billion of value, how much money the defender needs to have? And this is, you know, very classic, you know, crypto economic analysis, where an attacker can
donnoh | L2BEAT: Exhaust the resources of a defender.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And if you go to Chapter 6, Section 6, they do the math, and
donnoh | L2BEAT: The result is that the Defender, to protect $10 billion, needs, at least $12 billion, which is a lot, but it's not that bad. And I'm gonna also explain why it's not that bad.
donnoh | L2BEAT: But this assumes that the number of rounds that the defender needs to
donnoh | L2BEAT: win, or, like, the number of steps that the challenge… a challenge takes is 60, and this is based on both. Like, the depth of the game is 60, so the defender will need 60 steps.
donnoh | L2BEAT: I think it's a little bit more complicated than this, to be honest. And, you know, while this analysis is very good, you know.
donnoh | L2BEAT: There is… there are two…
donnoh | L2BEAT: form of crypto economic attacks that can happen on challenge protocols. And this is something that I discussed at DEFCON, last year.
donnoh | L2BEAT: In terms of simple attacks that you can do on optimistic roll-ups. So, like, if you have an attacker that proposes, invalid state routes.
donnoh | L2BEAT: It might not be enough to play one challenge, right? Because an attacker can just post 1,000 invalid state routes. So you might need to play 1,000 challenges, and if you need to play more challenges, it might be that the number of steps is more than the number of steps that it takes to resolve one challenge.
donnoh | L2BEAT: There is a cost, usually, associated to opening new challenges. You may need a new stake.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And…
donnoh | L2BEAT: different for proof systems, you know, I also posted a very long article explaining all the trade-offs between, for example, bold proof system and optimism, OPFP and Cartesi, proof system.
donnoh | L2BEAT: If you want to read it, it, like, represents, like, the full trade-off in terms of large bond size, small bond size, full concurrency, partial concurrency, whatever. If you want to read it, or, like, listen to the talk.
donnoh | L2BEAT: It's called Thoughtproofs War.
donnoh | L2BEAT: But basically.
donnoh | L2BEAT: there is… what I'm trying to say is that there is already a… an economic attack that is possible on optimistic roll-ups, and…
donnoh | L2BEAT: This… and these economic attacks are measured based on what is the advantage that the defender has
donnoh | L2BEAT: On the attacker.
donnoh | L2BEAT: Right? So we said before.
donnoh | L2BEAT: With the paper, we see that even if the talker is willing to spend up to $10 billion.
donnoh | L2BEAT: The defender just needs $12 million, so the advantage is pretty good, in this case. But the problem is.
donnoh | L2BEAT: Disadvantage is lower when we consider
donnoh | L2BEAT: dissolve their form of crypto economic attacks. That has nothing to do with censorship. Like, these attacks exist even in the absence of censorship.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And again, I don't have time to go into the details of how this works.
donnoh | L2BEAT: But, for example, Bold, for the, like, the advantage, the defender advantage for Bold is around 6, 6.5X. So this means that if the attacker is willing to spend $10 billion.
donnoh | L2BEAT: The defender needs to have at least $1.5 billion already, so this is, like, again, ignoring censorship.
donnoh | L2BEAT: For optimism, this ratio is 0.91. It's much, much worse than Arbitrum.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And in practice, it means the defender needs to have more money than the attacker, to protect the protocol.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And, you know, Arbitrum is better, but again, it's not… it's not, like, amazing, right? It's not the same as ZK Rollup, if you want to use that as a comparison.
donnoh | L2BEAT: But usually people say, okay, $1.5 billion is a lot, but this is fine, because…
donnoh | L2BEAT: In the end, the winner will get all the money back, plus a reward from the funds that will be slashed from the attacker. So, it's a lot of money, but probably we can find people that can pull funds together.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And we'll make a profit eventually, right?
donnoh | L2BEAT: So, the problem is… Well, is this true, that it might be easier, in this case, to…
donnoh | L2BEAT: to pull the funds and reach, you know, these very high amounts of money. In the censorship case,
donnoh | L2BEAT: you lose the money, like, you will not get this money back. You need to spend this money in tips, and we will not get it back. So I argue that it is more difficult to spend the same amount of money in stakes versus
donnoh | L2BEAT: in tips.
donnoh | L2BEAT: To… to be able to pull… to pull the funds. And the paper also…
donnoh | L2BEAT: fixes the number of rounds that it uses to calculate this 12 million that I discussed before, but this number is not fixed, because as I said before, the attacker can spend his budget
donnoh | L2BEAT: To create more challenges, And…
donnoh | L2BEAT: increase the number of rounds that the defender needs to win, right? And if you do the math.
donnoh | L2BEAT: You know, the relation is not even linear, it's faster than linear.
donnoh | L2BEAT: But, like, 60 rounds, which is one challenge. The defender needs $12 million to project 10 billion.
donnoh | L2BEAT: If you have 10 challenges, let's say it's 600 rounds, and this is, again, a simplification, but, like, just to… just to give some numbers, the defender needs $120 million, and for
donnoh | L2BEAT: 6,000 rounds, it needs… 1 billion and something dollars, which is similar to the other type of
donnoh | L2BEAT: economic attack. But again, in this case, the defender will not get this money back, so it's arguably worse, right?
donnoh | L2BEAT: So, what I'm trying to say is that…
donnoh | L2BEAT: We need to understand how these economic attacks that can happen around censorship
donnoh | L2BEAT: how they play together with the economic attack that are already possible because of other reasons, because of civil attacks on censorship. And we need to understand, like, based on the attacker's budget, whether for the attacker it makes more sense to…
donnoh | L2BEAT: Let's say spend this budget on steak, or spend this budget on… Censorship?
donnoh | L2BEAT: Or, like, how the two things play together, you know? Because, again, it could be that one stake induces more rounds, and more rounds induce more spending to the defender.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And…
donnoh | L2BEAT: And also, the attacker, one thing that they can do is force the defender to spend money in a way that this money will not get back to the defender, right? So, instead of forcing the defender to spend his money stake, it will force the defender to spend his money in tips.
donnoh | L2BEAT: So… what I'm trying to say is that, you know.
donnoh | L2BEAT: this, this is complicated, and I don't think it's very clear, that…
donnoh | L2BEAT: a protocol would be safe with a challenge period of one day. Like, it's not clear how much money we need to reserve for purpose.
donnoh | L2BEAT: To protect ourselves from crypto economic attacks.
donnoh | L2BEAT: The good news is that if we had fossil, fossil would get rid of both of these concerns. Also in the paper, they do the analysis where fossil is presented, and they say the money that the defender needs is under 1 million.
donnoh | L2BEAT: Because, like, censorship-resistant guarantees is… are much, much better. The, attacker needs to spend way more money.
donnoh | L2BEAT: to sensor, than the version that we, we just discussed. So, I think it's a good idea to, you know, push fossil if this is the, what we, what we want to do.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And… also, like, pragmatically speaking, I really believe that today,
donnoh | L2BEAT: most of the Stage 1 projects.
donnoh | L2BEAT: If there is indeed an attack, like a serious attack, we'll not use the…
donnoh | L2BEAT: challenge protocol, to protect themselves. I bet that if something like this happens, the Security Council will be used to just get rid of the malicious state route in one way or the other. And…
donnoh | L2BEAT: if this is the only, like, realistic safeguard to these crypto economic attacks, I don't think we can consider these projects as having fully functional systems, right? And…
donnoh | L2BEAT: On all 2B, it's right now, having a fully functional proof system is not even a Stage 1 requirement, it's a stage 0 requirement. So, you know, I think we need to be… to be careful.
donnoh | L2BEAT: around these things. Okay, so, apart from all this discussion, We also need to…
donnoh | L2BEAT: Get realistic, like, discuss what are the benefits to go from 7 days to 1 day.
donnoh | L2BEAT: or, like, two days, or whether there is, you know, significant difference between 1 and 2, in some way or the other. And, we didn't get a lot of comments, to be honest, on this. And I hope, you know, some other people can chime in.
donnoh | L2BEAT: We got one comment in the research post from Hart, which is, you know, co-founder of Across, the Internet Protocol, and he says, you know, one day is, of course, much, much better than seven days.
donnoh | L2BEAT: But also, you know,
donnoh | L2BEAT: it says where we want to get to is a one-hour bridge, or, like, a few hours bridge, right? And…
donnoh | L2BEAT: A challenge period in the order of hours is, of course, unrealistic, very unrealistic.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And there is also Greg, representing, like, solvers, says that, of course, one day is better than 7 days, but at the end here, it says.
donnoh | L2BEAT: My gut instinct said that if we go from 7 to 1 day, we might see the LPP go down by a marginal amount, say 20-30%.
donnoh | L2BEAT: Simply because the cost of locking up is still relatively high, and the margins are already so low.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And… And, you know, at the top, also, at this dots, it says.
donnoh | L2BEAT: reduce the L2 exit window can impact the solar market community, but only if it's done in a significantly more dramatic way, I'd argue down to a few hours. So, like, to me, again, it's not super clear that the advantage from going to 7 days to 1 day is not big.
donnoh | L2BEAT: to cause all these potential issues in crypto economic attacks. That forces… force us to use security councils all the time, if these things happen.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And I would love to get, like, more opinion of this, if,
donnoh | L2BEAT: if people have some, and I'm not really sure that, like, end users, not even solvers, will start using the…
donnoh | L2BEAT: the… the chemical bridge compared to, let's say, across, or, like, other inter protocols. So…
donnoh | L2BEAT: That's all I had.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And I couldn't read the charts, so I will do it now.
donnoh | L2BEAT: Thanks.
Joshua Rudolf: Greg?
Greg Markou: Yay, can you…
Greg Markou: Yeah, thanks for that. That was really, really well done. I just want to speak… sorry, this is Greg, I wrote the post.
Greg Markou: Or wrote the reply, so I…
Greg Markou: I think there's, like, one key thing to understand here, which is, like.
Greg Markou: Especially when it comes to market makers, LPs, NAMMMs, arbitragers, you know, anybody really in that category.
Greg Markou: It doesn't…
Greg Markou: You know, the name of the game for us and these folks, in order to use the native bridge.
Greg Markou: is, like, how many rebalances I can get in in a day, and at what cost.
Greg Markou: And that's why, like, unless you dramatically drop it to, you know, an hour, ideally, you know, that'd be great. The… you know, I'd rather just, like, take the risk for $12 to send it across Binance. You know, Binance is, like, maybe a buck.
Greg Markou: a dollar to move in and out, right, to mainnet, and I can, for, like, $12 in a day, get, like, anywhere from, you know, 8 to 12 rebalances in.
Greg Markou: And so…
Greg Markou: For most people, it's probably, you know, there's higher incentive to wanting to just, like, get it done faster.
Greg Markou: And we operate over rela… our books are relatively centralized as is, so for us, it doesn't matter. And so that's why I don't think, like, us as the end user, it's gonna solve a whole lot of problems. What it will solve is it'll bring the cost of capital for teams, like, across to run their LP system.
Greg Markou: And that's the one that settles all the, like, fast exits for solvers to, like, move across. And that's great, right? That will have a dramatic reduction in the amount of capitalizing to get held, instead of 7 days worth of capital, it goes down to 1 day of capital.
Greg Markou: And it might change the rate slightly, but I don't think you'll see a huge dramatic shift in the end user, because you'll probably just
Greg Markou: watch the total liquidity in that… those pools just ride the utility curve, right? The same way, like, an Aave curve, the pricing of an Aave curve, a lot of these LPs will drop out, the fees will go to zero, and then it'll probably rebalance back to roughly where it was before.
Greg Markou: Maybe a slight… maybe a slight discount, just because some people will stay in it for longer.
Greg Markou: So it has huge benefit, and I'm all for dropping the time, because I think it makes overall capital efficiency much smoother, where you fuse the native bridge in the true
Greg Markou: You know, and the protocols that actually follow, like, you know, a true decentralized,
Greg Markou: You know, by using the native bridges. But it's not gonna dramatically improve end-user experience, in my opinion, and it won't dramatically improve the market maker, solver landscape, as, like, we just still won't use it.
Greg Markou: Because…
Greg Markou: It's, you know, one rebalance versus upwards of, like, 12 to 20, you know, just depending on how many you can do in a day.
Greg Markou: Because the user volume is not going to change.
Greg Markou: Right? It's just the… it's just the amount of capital needed to process these transactions faster is what… what dramatically changes.
Greg Markou: Yeah, I think that's, like…
Greg Markou: the main gist of what I'm saying, and I think hard is also relatively in line with that. I don't want to speak on behalf, but based on his comments, kind of similar.
matt: I wanted to jump in and just, maybe outline a few points that… Greg, I think we're mostly on the same page, but I might wibble on a few points there.
matt: I think the way… the way I think about these L2… and by the way, I'm Matt from across, I don't think Hart can make it today. He might be on the call later, but,
matt: the way I think about it is, like.
matt: When you have bidirectional flow, if you have, like, equal flow in both directions, you just net everything off and it's fine.
matt: But if you do have directional flow off of these L2s, off of a particular L2,
matt: somebody's gonna be left holding the bag. Like, somebody has to be waiting in the 7-Day Bridge.
matt: with those funds. Whether it's Binance.
matt: whether it's across his LPs, somebody's gotta be holding the bag there.
matt: And ultimately, somebody's gonna have to pay that cost of locking that capital up in the bridge.
matt: And so, where I'd push back a little bit on what you said, Greg, and I'll leave a more detailed comment.
matt: In the thread, like, in the, in the ETH Research post. But, the… like…
matt: that cost is going to be paid by users. Like, users to get off that chain, if there is directional flow off the chain, they are going to have to pay that rate, for somebody basically taking, you know, lending them the money to get their funds off quickly.
matt: And so, like… You know, ultimately that cost is gonna be borne by users, and…
matt: like, the across-LP fees, I think, would go down substantially.
matt: Because the rate that a user pays on a particular transfer is different from the rate that an LP gets. If you think about it this way, like an LP holding their capital for 7 days, you know, having their capital in the system for 7 days, they could support 7
matt: transfers over that 7-day bridge, with, you know, with a week, you know, holding that dollar there for a week, whereas in the current, you know, with a 7-day bridge, they can only support one transfer. So you can think about it as a user, basically an LP, can support more transfers with the same dollar, so they get paid… they basically get paid more
matt: while the users get paid, you know, have to pay in less. So this does make, like, systems like across much more efficient, and basically means that users pay, you know, in terms of the capital cost they're paying on these transfers, they should see a roughly 7x lower cost. Once again, this is for directional flow off of the L2s.
matt: So I do think that reducing from 7 days to 1 day would be a pretty big deal for user costs, for ease of moving capital off these chains, especially when you see directional flow. And at a cross, like.
matt: You know, we've… we've…
matt: we've sort of been in the L2 space for a while. There are, you know, these things go through ebbs and flows, and we have seen massive directional flows off these chains during periods of time, and, like, our LPs just get super utilized because, you know, there's a bunch of people trying to move ETH off a particular chain because there's some farming opportunity somewhere.
matt: And, and this puts a lot of stress on the system and drives up costs for users, because we have to sit here waiting for 7 days to get the funds back.
matt: So yeah, I think it would be a big deal. I think one hour would be much, much, much better, but, but yeah, I think any reduction here would be, would be, you know, helpful to users and impactful.
Rami | Boundless: I wanted to bring back the focus to security for a bit… for a bit, following up on what Danu mentioned. So,
Rami | Boundless: Yeah, this discussion was triggered a year ago, about a year ago.
Rami | Boundless: Largely because of a non-interactive, Protocol being promoted, and…
Rami | Boundless: The claims it had made about, finality.
Rami | Boundless: there are… there is a lot of nuance here. One thing to note is that, by the way, I'm Rami, I'm from Boundless. I worked on that non-interactive protocol called, Kailua.
Rami | Boundless: And some of the nuance there was that
Rami | Boundless: Even if you have a challenge going on, you can still have,
Rami | Boundless: very low delays, because you can resolve that challenge as fast as you can computer proof. So…
Rami | Boundless: you don't have to go and play out a full non-interactive dispute game and spend the whole 3.5 or 7 days playing that if a dispute happens. You can just shut that down.
Rami | Boundless: Immediately.
Rami | Boundless: -Home.
Rami | Boundless: The other nuanced detail to,
Rami | Boundless: Also, bear in mind is that a non-interactive protocol
Rami | Boundless: like Kailua, means that these, economic attacks, or
Rami | Boundless: Whale attacks that are possible today in,
Rami | Boundless: Interactive protocols are not possible in a non-interactive one.
Rami | Boundless: Mainly because no matter how many disputes an adversary opens, or how many state proposals an adversary submits, the honest defender only needs to submit one
Rami | Boundless: on this proposal, every dispute period. And that automatically prevents,
Rami | Boundless: any of the adversary's, proposals from being acceptable.
Rami | Boundless: The proofs then come in later, at any pace, to… Eliminate these, bogus proposals.
Rami | Boundless: So, that ties into the analyses that, Dono had mentioned. So if we… even if we consider a,
Rami | Boundless: Propos or builder model, Where we have to…
Rami | Boundless: Bear in mind, the,
Rami | Boundless: Censorship budget, so we're not talking about 50% attacks, we're just talking about bribery, essentially.
Rami | Boundless: So if we have this one honest challenge or transaction,
Rami | Boundless: Basically have its fees set to be the collateral, the entire collateral requirement for participation in the protocol.
Rami | Boundless: You get a completely different cost.
Rami | Boundless: Of attack. So, for example, let's say this, fee is, 1 ETH, just 1 ETH to put up as collateral to participate in the protocol.
Rami | Boundless: And you want to bribe all the proposers, let's say they are 100%,
Rami | Boundless: They are dominating 100% of the blocks.
Rami | Boundless: And you want to bribe them for a full day, then you basically need,
Rami | Boundless: 72,000 ETH, right, to spend to do that bribery attack. And that's assuming, you know, PBS is 100%, because
Rami | Boundless: if PBS is just, you know, 1% off.
Rami | Boundless: That transaction should be landing.
Rami | Boundless: Within a day.
Rami | Boundless: Bye.
Rami | Boundless: And these are details that are often… often overlooked, and I think
Rami | Boundless: When we want to analyze this and come to a reasonable conclusion, we have to differentiate between Interactive.
Rami | Boundless: A non-interactive protocol.
Rami | Boundless: Protocols, even if, you know, the interactive one in consideration has a pretty good defender to attacker ratio.
Joshua Rudolf: Paul?
Paul Dowman: Hi, I'm Paul from OP Labs, and I wanted to follow up on what Varami said, because I think right now is a good time to talk about this when Optimistic ZK is also available for many people to use, and I think the 7-day L1 hard fork assumption
Paul Dowman: is quite optimistic, and a lot of… no pun intended. And this is… a lot of this hangs off of that original assumption.
Paul Dowman: And with dispute games, interactive dispute games, it doesn't matter that much, because you still have this 3-hour, transaction inclusion times…
Paul Dowman: Your number of transactions for the whole dispute game, and it sort of works out the same.
Paul Dowman: But if you have an optimistic
Paul Dowman: ZK, then essentially you need one transaction to… to, challenge it, and I think that's… that's kind of relevant now.
Joshua Rudolf: Thanks, Paul.
Joshua Rudolf: Totus?
Potuz: Hi. I want to mention a couple of things, different things. I think there's a bunch of confusion here. First of all, it's completely irrelevant for the window.
Potuz: for the withdrawal window. It's completely irrelevant if you're interactive or not. You only care about censoring the first transaction. The interacting protocol can just automatically go unchained into, like, 10 months challenge protocol, I don't care.
Potuz: So you only care about that very first transaction that triggers the challenge. So that's it. For any system, we only care about censorship for one single transaction.
Potuz: Now, I would phrase the whole discussion here, not in terms of
Potuz: a trade-off of, yes, we all know this lower security versus this is what we're gonna gain on capital efficiency, or whatever it is. It's not such a trade-off. I think we should actually define, as we… when you're designing any kind of system, what are the boundaries that we're trying to work with?
Potuz: what are the security assumptions that we want to guarantee our users, and given this set of constraints, this is what the challenge protocol should be, or this is what rollout should be. We should really get into… aligned into what are the security guarantees that we want to provide our users.
Potuz: We might agree or might disagree on rollups should be resistant to a 51% attack on Ethereum, like Ethereum users are, or might not agree on this.
Potuz: But the whole point is that we should set the line of what are the security assumptions that we're willing to guarantee, and once we have that, and we agree on that, we can design a system, and we can talk about, like, deadlines for Windows or not.
Potuz: Regardless, regarding the challenge, the censoring for 1 day, or 7 days, or whatever it is, it's a single transaction.
Potuz: There are changes on L1 that, that we can propose, regardless of fossil, even. Fossil certainly makes the economic guarantees much better than the current guarantees.
Potuz: Because, I mean, this is already in that paper that was mentioned by Luca, like, these multiple proposals make the economic attack much less profitable.
Potuz: But it doesn't account for the 51% attackers. Fossil just…
Potuz: you don't even need to include the transactions. If you have a 51 attacker, they can just vote a block as valid, even though it's sunscreen.
Potuz: what I wanted to mention is that strong censorship, and even that fossil censorship, can be detected on-chain.
Potuz: So, the challenge protocol can on-chain count, with very strong statistical inference, how many blocks were reorged by the attacker, can count how many inclusion lists, bit lists were not included or not satisfied. And these kind of things that can be said on-chain, we can…
Potuz: we can just immediately delay on-chain the protocol. So oracles for this kind of things exist if we decide to implement those things in L1, and then we move the problem to just purely an economic problem that we can actually analyze as it was analyzed, and we can just measure what is the censorship that we're guaranteeing our users or not.
Potuz: So I think we should, like, set those parameters first, and then talk about capital efficiency, which I think is just secondary to these kind of problems.
Ellie Davidson: If I can jump in, I disagree, because I think that the argument isn't… we know what we want, the security we want L2s to have. We want L2s to be stage 2. The argument is that because of the requirements of
Ellie Davidson: of these security guarantees, which is the 7-day withdrawal window, users do not actually get the security of the L2s because they are using trusted bridges and synthetic assets. So the argument is that
Ellie Davidson: we know what the security we want is. The argument is that by enforcing this security, the users are actually not getting it.
Ellie Davidson: And so that, I think, is the argument. So I kind of disagree there.
Rami | Boundless: I also disagree with the idea that it doesn't matter how many moves you have to make in order to defend against an attack.
Rami | Boundless: Depending on how you model your adversary, you can assume that they have managed to bribe or control a certain percentage of the chain.
Rami | Boundless: Then they can effectively delay each and every one of your moves by a certain amount of time.
Rami | Boundless: So this means if you have to make 60 moves, and an adversary can delay each one of your transactions on average by an hour, then your lower bound is…
Rami | Boundless: 60 hours, so… This does play a major role.
Rami | Boundless: In how much time, should be allotted for a dispute?
Joshua Rudolf: Girl.
karl: Yeah, I…
karl: I think that it is going to be very hard for us to align on a detailed security model for L2s, because that is very challenging. However, I think we can all align on, or at least I feel very aligned on a few things, which is, one, that we want L2s to be very secure.
karl: And two, that we all want to get to stage two, and three, that we want to provide a good experience for users. And I think that we should really focus on the conversation about, okay, we know for a fact
karl: That, lowering the withdrawal times.
karl: From 7 days to 1 day will massively increase the amount of chains that are able to get efficient price discovery and efficient,
karl: bridging.
karl: from their chain to other chains, more chains in the across-network, and I think that would be a really good thing for the Ethereum ecosystem, because we want L2s to be massively successful. And so, that, I think, is the starting point. And then, it is a question, I do think it is a question, and a nuanced question, of, okay, do we think that that is still in line with our security
karl: goals, and the point that Ellie, I think, really made very well there, which is, well, if we don't make these changes, will people use these bridges anyway? So is this kind of…
karl: a moot point in, you know, is the security question a moot point? At least we're giving users better security than the alternative. So, I'm not gonna say that we're gonna all convince, all be aligned on the security nuances on this call, but…
karl: you know, I… I… I don't know, I felt like that.
karl: Just, like, directionality is useful to keep in mind as we have these discussions.
Joshua Rudolf: Thanks, Carl. Let's go to Harry next.
Harry Kalodner | Offchain Labs: Man, this is a conversation that I feel like has been going for, like, I don't even know how many years now, like, 5 years now. I was just thinking about, Carl, you probably remember, Kelvin had a great blog post in, like, I don't remember, like, 2021, 2022, which was just like, what the hell is this 7-day period thing?
Harry Kalodner | Offchain Labs: Which was put in place, like, before the merge.
Harry Kalodner | Offchain Labs: when, prospectively, there was this idea that, like, we could slash in… if censorship occurred, even though that was completely impossible before Proof of Stake, so the history of it is, like, kind of wild. I have a lot of mixed thoughts on this. I definitely… the argument of essentially kind of, like.
Harry Kalodner | Offchain Labs: I'm, like… one argument I'd like to make is, like, Stage 2 is great in theory, and everybody is trying to move for Stage 2, but also, I worry about getting too caught up in, like.
Harry Kalodner | Offchain Labs: sacrificing Stage 1, where most chains are today, in the interest of Stage 2, and that, like, I think that, like, the argument that basically, like.
Harry Kalodner | Offchain Labs: today, the actual security assumptions people are getting are not from the native bridge, because they're using, like, other bridges is a great one. And, like, that definitely seems, like, worth thinking about and looking at and, like, trying to balance, like, cohesively. Like, I guess what I'm saying is, like.
Harry Kalodner | Offchain Labs: I think… I would argue we should be optimizing for the practical security of Stage 1 roll-ups today, versus, like.
Harry Kalodner | Offchain Labs: and not worrying as much about Stage 2, which is a goal and will be a goal no matter what, but, like, also, we don't know exactly when, like, mainstream high adoption roll-ups are gonna actually be at a point where, like, the trade-offs for Stage 2 are acceptable, and, like, I wouldn't…
Harry Kalodner | Offchain Labs: I hope it's soon, but I wouldn't want to, like, bet too much that it's gonna be, like, very soon.
Harry Kalodner | Offchain Labs: The…
Harry Kalodner | Offchain Labs: The other… let's see, a couple other, like, small thoughts. One, like, I think the… just to, like, clarify, like, the conversation that happened a little bit in the chat from what Poda said, like, for optimistic… for, like, multi-round interactive proofs, what you can do is basically say, like, hey, if there's no challenge at all, it'll be confirmed in a day. If there is a challenge, that challenge window will be extended out for longer. You still have the LP risk of a withdrawal could take 7 days in the happy case, in the average case.
Harry Kalodner | Offchain Labs: would be one day. It's kind of a middle ground. I think the question of, like, how much, like, average expected time to complete the withdrawal versus worst-case time is something that would be very worth, like, evaluating, when it comes to this. And then the… let's see, the last…
Harry Kalodner | Offchain Labs: the last one being just… well, last two, sorry, two quick. One, like, at least for our model, like, there's no time for censorship per transaction. Like, if that model is wrong, then that's worth discussing. Like, the model we use is basically there's a global censorship budget that can be applied across a number of transactions.
Harry Kalodner | Offchain Labs: but that if you spend it all up front or something, then the rest of transactions will be able to go through quickly. If there's disagreement about that, that definitely seems worth flushing out. Again, not settled on this call. Like people have said, there's only so much time. The last thing is, like, I would love for us, and I feel like there's, like, you know.
Harry Kalodner | Offchain Labs: Yes, agreeing on this call on, like, an overall security model is probably infeasible, but also, like, It's…
Harry Kalodner | Offchain Labs: it's a scary, messy thing messing with the challenge period. There's a reason why it hasn't made any momentum before now, and I'm really excited that there's a serious conversation happening about it now, because it's really needed. But also, like, I don't want to move too fast. I mean, I think we need to, like, be very careful of the optics here externally, in terms of, like, if the optics are just like, hey, we're just, like, YOLO changing it, because…
Harry Kalodner | Offchain Labs: we felt like it, then we are gonna get attacked to hell by everybody outside the Ethereum ecosystem. And so, like, making sure we have, like, a fundamentals-based, like, strong analysis of it feels, like, pretty damn important. Alright.
Harry Kalodner | Offchain Labs: Sorry for taking up so much time, but a lot of thoughts.
Rami | Boundless: I also just wanted to mention that the idea that we would be able, or I don't know who we are, but that a fork would be able… would be something we can do in 7 days isn't… isn't really a security guarantee.
Rami | Boundless: Like, if the whole reasoning is…
Rami | Boundless: We're gonna keep the 7 days because the Ethereum has managed to do a fork.
Rami | Boundless: Previously, in 6 days, or in 5 days, or something.
Rami | Boundless: A fork is gonna be catastrophic for everyone.
Rami | Boundless: In every possible way. Value's going down, no one's going to trust the system, 7 days…
Rami | Boundless: As a reason for… 7 days doesn't make a lot of sense.
Rami | Boundless: I had another point, but I forgot.
Harry Kalodner | Offchain Labs: Just on that, and super quickly, I was talking with Podas last week about, like, I would love for us to start actually, like.
Harry Kalodner | Offchain Labs: having real sort of drills on… for Ethereum of, like, hey, if the sort of sensorship attacks we're worried about were to occur, like, could we coordinate? Could we align? What would happen? That would be amazing to try to, like, actually simulate.
Rami | Boundless: I also wanted to add that Fossil is an amazing step towards
Rami | Boundless: Having better guarantees on all these fraud-proof transactions. Just wanted to second that voice.
Joshua Rudolf: Yeah, POTUS, go for it.
Potuz: No, I'll ask you later in a sec.
Joshua Rudolf: Okay.
Joshua Rudolf: Anyone else want to jump in with anything, or…
Joshua Rudolf: We have about nine.
Lumi | Offchain Labs: Maybe I can just…
Joshua Rudolf: So…
Lumi | Offchain Labs: Add to this,
Lumi | Offchain Labs: I think instinctively to all of us, it makes a lot of sense that shortening the time, like, the settlement time would increase capital efficiency for solvers.
Lumi | Offchain Labs: And… but I haven't seen any good data for that, so one of the things I'm worried about is without…
Lumi | Offchain Labs: like, sufficiently justifying this move, which actual research that we just kind of YOLO the time window to be shorter. And then if there starts a race between fraud-proof roll-ups to lower it.
Lumi | Offchain Labs: Lowered more than everyone else kind of has to follow in step for, sort of, business needs.
karl: Nice. Okay, this, I mean, other people should honestly talk to this as well, across included. But I'll just say that we have talked with both market makers as well as centralized exchanges, and everyone, at the end of the day, if you are, supporting
karl: ETH on an L2, you need to account for the
karl: fact that you need to withdraw within some timeframe. And whether or not you are a market maker that is, like, actually rebalancing yourself, or you are a market maker that uses a centralized exchange for that rebalancing, what you are doing is you are not removing that problem, you are deferring that problem to the centralized exchange, because now the centralized exchange will offer rates
karl: amounts of, you know, withdrawals per second or per day that they support for, MarketMaker. And so this is…
karl: this problem is fundamental, and what it ends up doing is it means that small chains do not get two things. They do not get efficient price discovery for ETH, and they, too, do not get across integrations. And so this is…
karl: Definitely, we can talk about it, we can compile a whole big doc, but it is factually accurate that it is a impact.
Lumi | Offchain Labs: No, I fully agree. This is a disproportionate benefit for small chains, right? If you have a large chain, you have enough
Lumi | Offchain Labs: usage to actually incentivize market makers. This is definitely a benefit for small chains, way more than ARB1, or OPMainNet, or BASE.
Joshua Rudolf: Important?
Noah’s iPhone: I think for me, it's the small change that almost worries me more here.
Noah’s iPhone: Because they're having an extra security council, it's almost acting like proof of authority.
Noah’s iPhone: Sorry, I'm on mobile, so I couldn't figure out the hand raise button.
Joshua Rudolf: No worries. Thanks, Noah.
Joshua Rudolf: POTUS, did you want to jump in?
Potuz: I want to mention that regardless of what happens with this shortened period, I think we should get to a stage in which we can make some sort of assumptions about
Potuz: for example, percentage of honest validators. And today, we… if we split this, and we go… we neglect the 51% attack, then we're making that assumption. There's at least 51% of onus validators.
Potuz: And I would love to be in a situation in which the kind of assumptions we can make is there is at least 5% of honest validators, which is something that would be, I would consider, reasonable for all of operators.
Potuz: And unfortunately, today, we cannot make that assumption because of the way of the PBS market and how it's set up.
Potuz: We cannot even make the assumption that validators are running vanilla software, because someone else is building their blocks for them.
Potuz: I believe that after Glamsterdam, we have a chance of actually setting this up in such a way that
Potuz: we can make an honest assumption on 5% of validators are running vanilla software, and will not allow sensor transactions get in. And this is regardless of fossil. So I think I would try to make this discussion after we are in such a stage.
Potuz: Instead of, like, miss… of dismissing the 51% attack.
Joshua Rudolf: Yes, Ahi?
Tsahi | Offchain Labs: Yeah, there is just one small point I wanted to comment about. We're talking about
Tsahi | Offchain Labs: If we don't give, like…
Tsahi | Offchain Labs: users going to bridges, so they are anyway not getting security, and I just wanted to put it out that there is a huge difference between
Tsahi | Offchain Labs: User while bridging an asset, not getting security, and user while staying on-chain, not getting security.
Tsahi | Offchain Labs: And playing with,
Tsahi | Offchain Labs: When the train finalizes, it's playing with the second, which is way, way worse than, trusting a bridge for, like.
Tsahi | Offchain Labs: 15 minutes with some funds.
Joshua Rudolf: So we have 4 minutes left,
Joshua Rudolf: maybe we can bring it back to the start. I don't know, Dono, if you have anything that you find useful to sort of bookend this conversation with.
Joshua Rudolf: or anyone else have thoughts on potential next steps here? I think there's been a lot of really great discussion so far. Happy to help contribute to a summary that we can
Joshua Rudolf: use for… Perhaps actually coming to some conclusions here.
Joshua Rudolf: But…
donnoh | L2BEAT: Yeah, so the, like, the only comment that I would leave is, you know, like, it's… well, it's kind of easy, maybe, or maybe not so easy, but for sure easier to discuss, like, the benefits.
donnoh | L2BEAT: I think it should be clearer with these, the Defender budgets that we're comfortable with, you know, like, Because…
donnoh | L2BEAT: like, if it is unrealistic, again, that the defender will be able to protect the chain, because it needs too much budget, it needs to burn too much money, it means that proof systems that we use are completely useless. Like, you can just remove the proof system, if that's the case, and just use the Security Council for everything, right? So…
donnoh | L2BEAT: Like, I think someone, should run some number and see, what is the expected budget the defender needs to have based on the TVS approaching.
donnoh | L2BEAT: And if you're comfortable with that.
Joshua Rudolf: Yeah, go for it, Harry.
Harry Kalodner | Offchain Labs: One, just, like, quick, quick note to throw in, I mean, and…
Harry Kalodner | Offchain Labs: POTUS mentioned a couple times Glamsterdam. Like, it seems like, you know, if we get alignment from everybody that there's something here that could be done pre-Glamsterdam, even better, but, like, also.
Harry Kalodner | Offchain Labs: Glamstia Dam's not that far away, it's relatively late stages, like, if we think that there's, like, some set of changes that is practical to be included along with that hard fork that would give us, like, a confident base to go off of.
Harry Kalodner | Offchain Labs: That seems like a very specific target that shouldn't be missed.
Harry Kalodner | Offchain Labs: So it's worth certainly having both conversations, but, like, also, like, let's not, like, miss Amsterdam and have that pass and say, like, oh wait, if we had just done X, then we would have been able to, you know, lower the period more confidently, assuming that there's general alignment in terms of that as a fork priority.
karl: Because no one's saying anything, I'll just say that I'm really hopeful that at the end of this, we can figure out a way to make… to give users the best experience possible while keeping them safe. And we can do that with practical solutions.
karl: Which are implementable, and reasonable, and…
karl: That, I think, is something that we sometimes struggle with in the Ethereum ecosystem. We get a little bit, we start talking around about all these crazy ideas and stuff, and then we're like, oh, wait, where did the users go?
karl: So let's make sure that we focus on the users, that we give them a great experience.
karl: And I think that's what matters, so…
karl: So let's lower the exit with it, no, anyway.
karl: Well said. Thank you, Carl. I think that's the best way to end the call.
Joshua Rudolf: Thank you, everyone, for being here. We will share some summaries and continue the discussion.
Joshua Rudolf: Talk to you guys soon.
karl: Thanks!
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Goodbye.
Noah’s iPhone: Bye-bye. Thanks.